how's this for a strange idea a day off
from work in honor of work itself
actually that is what Labor Day
celebrated in the United States and
Canada on the first Monday of every
September is all about the first
American Labor Day was celebrated in New
York City on September 5th 1882
as thousands of workers and their
families came to Union Square for a day
in the park it was not a national
holiday but had been organized by a
union to honor workers and their hard
efforts with a rare day of rest halfway
between July 4th and Thanksgiving
there were picnics and a parade but
there were also protests the workers had
gathered not just to rest and celebrate
but to demand fair wages the end of
child labor and the right to organize
into unions during the period known as
the Industrial Revolution many jobs were
difficult dirty and dangerous people
worked for 12 hours six days a week
without fringe benefits such as
vacations health care and pensions and
if you were young chances are you were
doing manual labor instead of your ABCs
and fractions children as young as 10
worked in some of the most hazardous
places like coal mines or factories
filled with boiling that or dangerous
machines trying to win better pay
shorter hours and safer conditions
workers had begun to form labor unions
in America and Canada but the companies
they worked for often fought hard to
keep unions out and to suppress strikes
at times this led to violent battles
between workers and business owners with
the owners often backed up by the police
or even the military
in the following years the idea of labor
day caught on in America with official
celebrations reaching 30 states but then
came the violent Haymarket Square riot
of 1886 which led to the deaths of
several policemen and workers in Chicago
and the execution of four union leaders
after that many labor and political
groups around the world had begun to
mark Haymarket Square on May 1st which
became known as International Workers
day in 1894 President Grover Cleveland
signed the law making Labor Day a
federal holiday in America only days
after he had sent 12,000 soldiers to end
a violent railroad strike that resulted
in the death of several people
the original September date was kept
partly to avoid the more radical
associations of May first Canada also
created its Labor Day in 1894 but in
spite of this new holiday it would be a
long time before the changes that
workers wanted became a reality in 1938
during the Great Depression that left
millions without jobs President Franklin
D Roosevelt signed a law calling for an
eight-hour workday a five-day workweek
and an end to child labor some of the
first federal protections for American
workers as America and Canada celebrate
Labor Day most of the two countries
children enjoy a day off from school but
it is important to remember that there
was a time that every day was a labor
day for children in America and Canada
and unfortunately the same fact remains
true for millions of children around the
world today
you